[IMP] contributing/documentation: update documentation guidelines (#10675)
odoo/documentation: content/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.rst

that links remain valid even with version updates, folder name changes, and directory structure
reorganization.

An absolute file path indicates target's location from the root directory. A relative file path uses
smart notations (such as ``../`` that redirects to the parent folder) to indicate the target's
location *relative* to that of the source document.

.. example::
   Given the following source file tree:
   ::

     documentation
     ├── content
     │   └── applications
     │   │   └── sales
     │   │   │   └── sales
     │   │   │   │   └── products_prices
     │   │   │   │   │   └── products
     │   │   │   │   │   │   └── import.rst
     │   │   │   │   │   │   └── variants.rst
     │   │   │   │   │   └── prices.rst

   A reference to the rendered :file:`prices.html` and :file:`variants.html` could be made from
   :file:`import.rst` as follows:

   #. Absolute:

      - ``https://odoo.com/documentation/{BRANCH}/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices.html``
      - ``https://odoo.com/documentation/{BRANCH}/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/products/variants.html``

   #. Relative:

      - ``../prices.html``
      - ``variants.html``

> 

Reviewer: I thought about using an RST file as an example, but you should be using the `:doc:` markup then if you follow the guidelines :) Also, relative links work for all file types.

> 

Author: Yeah, I thought it would be fine just for this example but you're right, we don't want to add confusion. I still think this is the most helpful example (since that's the one we use relative links for the most, and people struggle a lot with this) so I just added the :doc: markup, what do you think?

+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `orphan`        | Suppress the need to include the document in a toctree.                        |
+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `nosearch`      | Exclude the document from search results.                                      |
+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _contributing-rst-formatting-tips:

Formatting tips
===============

.. _contributing-rst-line-break:

Break the line but not the paragraph
------------------------------------

.. list-table::
   :class: o-showcase-table

   * - | A first long line that you break in two
         -> here <- is rendered as a single line.
       | A second line that follows a line break.

   * - .. code-block:: text

          | A first long line that you break in two
            -> here <- is rendered as a single line.
          | A second line that follows a line break.

.. _contributing-rst-escaping:

> Escape markup symbols (Advanced)
> --------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Escape markup symbols
---------------------
```
Is it necessary (or really "advanced"?)

|              |    =======           |
|              |    Heading           |
|              |    =======           |
+--------------+----------------------+
| H2           | .. code-block:: text |
|              |                      |
|              |    Heading           |
|              |    =======           |
+--------------+----------------------+
| H3           | .. code-block:: text |
|              |                      |
|              |    Heading           |
|              |    -------           |
+--------------+----------------------+
| H4           | .. code-block:: text |
|              |                      |
|              |    Heading           |
|              |    ~~~~~~~           |
+--------------+----------------------+
| H5           | .. code-block:: text |
|              |                      |
|              |    Heading           |
|              |    *******           |
+--------------+----------------------+
| H6           | .. code-block:: text |
|              |                      |
|              |    Heading           |
|              |    ^^^^^^^           |
+--------------+----------------------+

.. important::

>    Each document must have **exactly one H1 heading**. No less, no more.

Author: I don't think I've seen this a lot, have you? Anyways we can always add it later if we notice it's a recurring issue.

          Hyperlinks
          ==========

         .. _contributing-rst-relative-links:

         Use relative links for internal URLs
         ------------------------------------

         Please refer to the :ref:`<contributing-rst-hyperlinks-guidelines>` section to learn more
         about :ref:`relative links <contributing-rst-relative-links>`.

.. _contributing-rst-doc-page-hyperlinks:

Documentation page hyperlinks
-----------------------------

| The ``doc`` markup allows referencing a documentation page wherever it is in the file tree through
  a relative file path.
| There are two ways to use the markup, both using the ``doc`` markup:

#. ``:doc:`path_to_doc_page``` creates a hyperlink to the documentation page with the title of the
   page as label.
#. ``:doc:`label <path_to_doc_page>``` creates a hyperlink to the documentation page with the given
   label.

.. list-table::
   :class: o-showcase-table

   * - Please refer to `the Invoicing documentation <https://example.com/doc/accounting/invoices.html>`_
       and to `Send a pro-forma invoice <https://example.com/doc/sales/proforma.html>`_.

   * - .. code-block:: text

>           Please refer to :doc:`this documentation <customer_invoices>` and to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          Please refer to :doc:`the Invoicing documentation <customer_invoices>` and to
```

          :doc:`../sales/sales/invoicing/proforma`.

.. important::
   :ref:`Use relative links <contributing-rst-relative-links>` for documentation page hyperlinks.

.. _contributing-rst-download:

> File download hyperlinks

Reviewer 2: Are these files referenced with relative links as well? It seems like it, but it's not mentioned explicitly.

Reviewer 2: Perfect, thanks!

       time.

   * - .. code-block:: text

          Download this :download:`module structure template <extras/my_module.zip>` to start
          building your module in no time.

.. _contributing-rst-images:

Images
======

The ``image`` markup allows inserting images in a document.

.. list-table::
   :class: o-showcase-table

   * - .. image:: rst_guidelines/create-invoice.png
          :alt: Create an invoice.

   * - .. code-block:: text

          .. image:: rst_guidelines/create-invoice.png
             :alt: Create an invoice.

.. tip::
   - Images should generally be aligned to the left, which is the default behavior. Use the `align`
     parameter to change the alignment, e.g., ``:align: center``.
   - Use the `scale` parameter to scale the image, e.g., ``:scale: 75%``.
   - You can also use the ``figure`` markup instead of ``image`` if you want to add captions to
     your screenshot.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Content guidelines for images <contributing-content-images>`

.. _contributing-rst-alert-blocks:

Alert blocks (admonitions)
==========================

.. _contributing-rst-seealso:

> See also

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that it's okay to include more text than _just_ the link itself?

Reviewer 2: This works, but what I had in mind was text _outside_ of the the hyperlink altogether. This is a bad example because the text outside of the link is irrelevant but something like this:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c5cee4a-426f-4da9-b4d8-6be84cdb3774)

Author: I kind of think it isn't really necessary for seealsos in most cases. For instance, in your example above, I would personnally only have "Contact form configuration documentation" (with the hyperlink on the whole thing) in the seealso.

       +-----------------------+--------------+---------------+
       | **Sleeves length**    | Long sleeves | Short sleeves |
       +-----------------------+--------------+---------------+

   * - .. code-block:: text

          +-----------------------+--------------+---------------+
          |                       | Shirts       | T-shirts      |
          +=======================+==============+===============+
          | **Available colours** | Purple       | Green         |
          |                       +--------------+---------------+
          |                       | Turquoise    | Orange        |
          +-----------------------+--------------+---------------+
          | **Sleeves length**    | Long sleeves | Short sleeves |
          +-----------------------+--------------+---------------+

.. tip::
   - Use `=` instead of `-` to define header rows.
   - Remove `-` and `|` separators to merge cells.
   - Make use of `this convenient table generator <https://www.tablesgenerator.com/text_tables>`_ to
     build your tables. Then, copy-paste the generated formatting into your document.

.. _contributing-rst-code-blocks:

> Code blocks

Reviewer 2: What is the effect of using "python" versus any other language?

Reviewer 2: This is explained later in the code tabs section, but it would be good to include the information here as it's the first time the concept is presented:

> Just as for the code-block markup, the language defines the syntax highlighting of the tab.

             #include <iostream>

             int main() {
                 std::cout << "Hello World";
                 return 0;
             }

          .. code-tab:: python Hello Python

             print("Hello World")

          .. code-tab:: javascript Hello JavaScript

             console.log("Hello World");

   * - .. code-block:: text

          .. tabs::

             .. code-tab:: c++ Hello C++

                #include <iostream>

                int main() {
                    std::cout << "Hello World";
                    return 0;
                }

             .. code-tab:: python Hello Python

                print("Hello World")

             .. code-tab:: javascript Hello JavaScript

                console.log("Hello World");

.. _contributing-rst-cards:

Cards
=====

.. list-table::
   :class: o-showcase-table

   * - .. cards::

          .. card:: Documentation
             :target: ../documentation
             :tag: Step-by-step guide
             :large:

             Use this guide to acquire the tools and knowledge you need to write documentation.

          .. card:: Content guidelines
             :target: content_guidelines

>              List of guidelines and trips and tricks to make your content shine at its brightest!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
             List of guidelines and tips and tricks to make your content shine its brightest!
```

          .. card:: RST guidelines
             :target: rst_guidelines

             List of technical guidelines to observe when writing with reStructuredText.

   * - .. code-block:: text

          .. cards::

             .. card:: Documentation
                :target: ../documentation
                :tag: Step-by-step guide
                :large:

                Use this guide to acquire the tools and knowledge you need to write documentation.

             .. card:: Content guidelines
                :target: content_guidelines

                List of guidelines and trips and tricks to make your content shine at its brightest!

             .. card:: RST guidelines
                :target: rst_guidelines

                List of technical guidelines to observe when writing with reStructuredText.

.. _contributing-rst-document-metadata:

Document metadata
=================

> | Sphinx supports document-wide metadata markups that specify a behavior for the entire page.

Reviewer 2: What is Sphinx? This is the first mention of it and has no explanation of what it is.

Author: It's the documentation generator that we use. It converts RST into other formats such as HTML (amongst other things). You can check the Wikipedia article https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sphinx_(documentation_generator) for a more detailed explanation. I added the link in the doc as well :slightly_smiling_face:

| `code-column`   |  | Show a dynamic side column that can be used to display interactive          |
|                 |    tutorials or code excerpts.                                                 |
|                 |  | For example, see                                                            |
|                 |    :doc:`/applications/finance/accounting/get_started/cheat_sheet`.            |
+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `hide-page-toc` | Hide the "On this page" sidebar and use full page width for the content.       |
+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `custom-css`    | Link CSS files (comma-separated) to the document.                              |
+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `custom-js`     | Link JS files (comma-separated) to the document.                               |
+-----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | `classes`       | Assign the specified classes to the `<main/>` element of the document.         |

Reviewer 2: What are classes? I'm both personally curious and wondering if we should include an explanation.

Author: CSS classes are used to apply specific styles to HTML elements but to be fair I don't think we use this. I'll keep it though just in case we need it someday (as per ANV's request :slightly_smiling_face: )
I reorganized the table to list the markups that are the most useful to us first.

or a :ref:`file <contributing-rst-file>` that is not located in the same directory as
your current page, always use *relative file paths* instead of *absolute file paths*. This ensures
that links remain valid even with version updates, folder name changes, and directory structure
reorganizations.

An absolute file path indicates the target's location from the root directory. A relative file path
uses smart notations (such as ``../`` that redirects to the parent folder) to indicate the target's
location *relative* to that of the source document.

.. example::
   Given the following source file tree:
   ::

     documentation
     ├── content
     │   └── applications
     │   │   └── sales
     │   │   │   └── sales
     │   │   │   │   └── products_prices
     │   │   │   │   │   └── products
     │   │   │   │   │   │   └── import.rst
     │   │   │   │   │   │   └── variants.rst
     │   │   │   │   │   └── prices.rst

   A reference to the :file:`prices.rst` and :file:`variants.rst` could be made from
   :file:`import.rst` as follows:

   #. Absolute:

      .. code-block:: rst

>          - :doc:`documentation/content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices.rst`
>          - :doc:`documentation/content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/products/variants.rst`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices`
         - :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/products/variants`
```
"Absolute" links with the `:doc:` markup start from `/applications` and don't include the `.rst `extension

Author: Yeah I know, I was just trying to find a "universal" example but I guess that's not possible without confusing people (or being inaccurate in one way or another), you're right ...

   * - Please refer to the :ref:`contributing-rst-hyperlinks-guidelines` section to
       learn more about :ref:`relative links <contributing-rst-relative-links>`.

   * - .. code-block:: text

          .. _contributing-rst-hyperlinks-guidelines:

          Hyperlinks
          ==========

         .. _contributing-rst-relative-links:

         Use relative links for internal URLs
         ------------------------------------

         Please refer to the :ref:`<contributing-rst-hyperlinks-guidelines>` section to learn more
         about :ref:`relative links <contributing-rst-relative-links>`.

.. _contributing-rst-doc-page-hyperlinks:

Documentation page hyperlinks
-----------------------------

| The ``doc`` markup allows referencing a documentation page wherever it is in the file tree through
  a relative file path.
| There are two ways to use the markup, both using the ``doc`` markup:

#. ``:doc:`path_to_doc_page``` creates a hyperlink to the documentation page with the title of the
   page as label.
#. ``:doc:`label <path_to_doc_page>``` creates a hyperlink to the documentation page with the given
   label.

.. list-table::
   :class: o-showcase-table

>    * - Please refer to `the Invoicing documentation <https://example.com/doc/accounting/invoices.html>`_
>        and to `Send a pro-forma invoice <https://example.com/doc/sales/proforma.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - Please refer to `the Invoicing documentation <../../../applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices>`_
       and to `Send a pro-forma invoice <../../../applications/sales/sales/invoicing/proforma>`_.
```
If we want to use real examples

   * - .. code-block:: text

          Please refer to :doc:`the Invoicing documentation <customer_invoices>` and to

>           :doc:`../sales/sales/invoicing/proforma`.

Author: I changed them all (these were not the only "fake" ones)
